commands/docs-generate.md, before:

---
description: Generate documentation (API, README, guides, changelog) using documentation specialist
argument-hint: "[doc-type]"
allowed-tools: Task
---

Spawn the **documentation-specialist** agent using:

```
Task(cms-cultivator:documentation-specialist:documentation-specialist,
     prompt="Generate comprehensive documentation. Documentation type: [use argument if provided, otherwise 'all types']. Generate API docs (PHPDoc/JSDoc), user guides, developer docs, and changelogs. Apply CMS-specific documentation patterns for Drupal and WordPress.")
```

The documentation specialist will:
1. **Generate API documentation** - PHPDoc, JSDoc with examples
2. **Create user guides** - Step-by-step instructions with screenshots
3. **Write developer docs** - Architecture, contributing, setup guides
4. **Generate changelogs** - Keep a Changelog format from git history
5. **Build documentation sites** - Zensical-based documentation sites with modern theming
6. **Document CMS patterns**:
   - **Drupal**: Hooks, services, plugins, configuration
   - **WordPress**: Filters/actions, shortcodes, custom post types

**Doc types**: `api`, `readme`, `guide`, `changelog`, `inline`, `site`

---

## Tool Usage

**Allowed operations:**
- ✅ Spawn documentation-specialist agent
- ✅ Read code files to extract documentation
- ✅ Generate API documentation (PHPDoc, JSDoc)
- ✅ Create README files and user guides
- ✅ Generate changelogs from git history
- ✅ Run documentation generation tools (phpDocumentor, JSDoc)

**Not allowed:**
- ❌ Do not modify source code files
- ❌ Do not commit documentation (provide files for review)
- ❌ Do not publish documentation to external sites

The documentation-specialist agent performs all documentation generation operations.

---

## Agent Used

**documentation-specialist** - Documentation generation specialist with CMS-specific knowledge.

Commit message:

docs(style-guide): add markdown style guide for Zensical rendering
- Create comprehensive markdown style guide in docs/reference/
- Document proper heading usage vs bold text patterns
- Add conversion examples for common markdown issues
- Include checklist for testing documentation changes
- Update CLAUDE.md with key style rules and reference
- Update commands/docs-generate.md to reference style guide
- Update documentation-generator skill with Zensical patterns
- Add Reference section to zensical.toml navigation

Fixes rendering issues in Zensical by establishing patterns for:
- Using headings instead of bold text in nested lists
- Proper heading hierarchy for step-by-step instructions
- Code block formatting with language specification
- Section structure that renders correctly

commands/docs-generate.md, after:

---
description: Generate documentation (API, README, guides, changelog) using documentation specialist
argument-hint: "[doc-type]"
allowed-tools: Task
---

Spawn the **documentation-specialist** agent using:

```
Task(cms-cultivator:documentation-specialist:documentation-specialist,
     prompt="Generate comprehensive documentation. Documentation type: [use argument if provided, otherwise 'all types']. Generate API docs (PHPDoc/JSDoc), user guides, developer docs, and changelogs. Apply CMS-specific documentation patterns for Drupal and WordPress.")
```

The documentation specialist will:
1. **Generate API documentation** - PHPDoc, JSDoc with examples
2. **Create user guides** - Step-by-step instructions with screenshots
3. **Write developer docs** - Architecture, contributing, setup guides
4. **Generate changelogs** - Keep a Changelog format from git history
5. **Build documentation sites** - Zensical-based documentation sites with modern theming
6. **Document CMS patterns**:
   - **Drupal**: Hooks, services, plugins, configuration
   - **WordPress**: Filters/actions, shortcodes, custom post types

**Doc types**: `api`, `readme`, `guide`, `changelog`, `inline`, `site`

---

## Markdown Style for Zensical

When generating documentation for Zensical sites, follow the [Markdown Style Guide](../docs/reference/markdown-style-guide.md) to ensure proper rendering.

**Key points:**
- Use headings (###, ####) instead of bold text for categories
- Avoid numbered lists with bold items and sub-bullets
- Use proper heading hierarchy for step-by-step instructions
- Always specify language in code blocks

See the complete guide for examples and conversion patterns.

---

## Tool Usage

**Allowed operations:**
- ✅ Spawn documentation-specialist agent
- ✅ Read code files to extract documentation
- ✅ Generate API documentation (PHPDoc, JSDoc)
- ✅ Create README files and user guides
- ✅ Generate changelogs from git history
- ✅ Run documentation generation tools (phpDocumentor, JSDoc)

**Not allowed:**
- ❌ Do not modify source code files
- ❌ Do not commit documentation (provide files for review)
- ❌ Do not publish documentation to external sites

The documentation-specialist agent performs all documentation generation operations.

---

## Agent Used

**documentation-specialist** - Documentation generation specialist with CMS-specific knowledge.
