commands/pr-create.md, before:

---
description: Generate PR description and create pull request using workflow specialist
argument-hint: "[ticket-number] [--concise]"
allowed-tools: Bash(git status:*), Bash(git diff:*), Bash(git log:*), Bash(git branch:*), Bash(gh pr view:*), Task
---

## How It Works

Spawn the **workflow-specialist** agent to handle the complete PR creation workflow:

```
Task(cms-cultivator:workflow-specialist:workflow-specialist,
     prompt="Create a pull request from the current branch. Arguments: [use ticket number and --concise flag if provided]. Follow the complete PR creation workflow: (1) Analyze git changes and detect CMS-specific modifications, (2) Run quality checks as needed (skip in --concise mode unless critical), (3) Generate comprehensive PR description following the project template, (4) Present FULL PR title and description to user for approval, (5) After approval, create the PR using gh CLI.")
```

### Workflow Steps (Automated)

The workflow specialist automatically executes these steps:

#### 1. Analysis
- Parse arguments (ticket number, `--concise` flag)
- Gather git context: current branch, main branch, commits since branching, files changed
- Detect CMS-specific changes:
  - **Drupal**: Config changes, module updates, update hooks, services, routes, permissions
  - **WordPress**: Theme changes, Gutenberg blocks, ACF fields, custom post types, shortcodes
- Determine which quality checks are needed

#### 2. Quality Checks (Parallel)
- **Standard mode**: Spawn specialists in parallel based on changes detected
  - Security-critical code → `cms-cultivator:security-specialist:security-specialist`
  - UI/frontend changes → `cms-cultivator:accessibility-specialist:accessibility-specialist`
  - New features/modified code → `cms-cultivator:testing-specialist:testing-specialist`
- **Concise mode** (`--concise`): Skip specialists unless critical issues detected

#### 3. PR Description Generation
- Generate description following project template:
  - User story and description (concise in `--concise` mode)
  - Acceptance criteria extracted from code changes
  - Deployment notes (essential only in `--concise` mode)
  - Steps to validate with specific admin paths
  - Compiled specialist findings (if any)

#### 4. User Approval (CRITICAL)
- **Present FULL PR title and description** for review
- **Wait for explicit approval** before proceeding
- Allow user to request edits or approve as-is

#### 5. PR Creation
- Verify prerequisites (gh CLI auth, branch status, commits exist)
- Push branch to remote if needed (with user confirmation)
- Create pull request using `gh pr create`
- Return PR URL

### Tool Usage

The workflow-specialist orchestrates all operations:
- Analyze git history (commits, diffs, branch status)
- Detect CMS-specific changes (Drupal config, WordPress blocks)
- Spawn security-specialist, accessibility-specialist, testing-specialist in parallel for quality checks
- Generate PR description with acceptance criteria
- Present full description for user approval
- Push branch to remote (with user confirmation)
- Create pull request using gh CLI

**Prerequisites:**
- Changes must be committed before running this command
- Current branch cannot be main/master
- gh CLI must be installed and authenticated

---

## Quick Start

```bash
# 1. Commit and push your changes
git add .
git commit -m "Your commit message"
git push -u origin feature-branch

# 2. Run this command
/pr-create

# With ticket number:
/pr-create PROJ-123

# For smaller tasks/support tickets (concise mode):
/pr-create PROJ-123 --concise
/pr-create --concise
```

## Concise Mode

For smaller support tickets or simple bug fixes, use the `--concise` flag to generate:
- **Shorter descriptions** - 2-3 sentences instead of full paragraphs
- **Bullet point format** - Easier to scan and read
- **Fewer specialist checks** - Skips comprehensive analysis unless critical issues detected
- **Essential deployment notes only** - Focuses on what's necessary
- **All required template sections** - Still includes Description, Acceptance Criteria, Steps to Validate, etc.

**Use concise mode when:**
- ✅ Simple bug fixes
- ✅ Minor feature additions
- ✅ Small support tickets
- ✅ Quick UI tweaks
- ✅ Documentation updates

**Use standard mode when:**
- ✅ Major feature development
- ✅ Security-critical changes
- ✅ Complex refactoring
- ✅ Database schema changes
- ✅ Breaking changes

## PR Description Template

The workflow specialist generates descriptions following this structure:

```markdown
## Description
Teamwork Ticket(s): [PROJ-123](link)
- [ ] Was AI used in this pull request?

> As a developer, I need to...

[Comprehensive summary of changes and goals]

## Acceptance Criteria
* Extracted from code changes
* Specific, testable criteria
* Admin paths and validation steps

## Assumptions
* Known issues or limitations
* Environment-specific notes

## Steps to Validate
1. Direct links to test sites
2. Explicit testing instructions
3. Expected outcomes

## Affected URL
[link_to_multidev_or_test_site]

## Deploy Notes
[Dependencies, config imports, database updates, cache clearing]
```

## Ticket Number Handling

**Provide ticket number as argument:**
```bash
/pr-create PROJ-123
```

**Or let the workflow specialist extract it from:**
- Branch name: `feature/PROJ-123-description`
- Commit messages: Contains `PROJ-123`
- Manual prompt: Agent will ask if not found

## Optional PR Options

The workflow specialist can add:
- **Labels**: `--label bug,enhancement`
- **Reviewers**: `--reviewer username1,username2`
- **Assignees**: `--assignee username`
- **Draft mode**: `--draft`
- **Project**: `--project "Project Name"`

Just mention these in your request:
```bash
/pr-create PROJ-123 - mark as draft and assign to me
```

## CMS-Specific Detection

### Drupal Projects

The workflow specialist detects and documents:
- **Config changes**: `config/sync/*.yml` → Config import required
- **Update hooks**: `hook_update_N()` → Database updates needed
- **Module changes**: `modules/custom/` → Module dependencies
- **Services**: `*.services.yml` → Service definitions
- **Routes**: `*.routing.yml` → New endpoints
- **Permissions**: `*.permissions.yml` → Permission changes
- **Entities**: Field definitions, view modes, form displays

### WordPress Projects

The workflow specialist detects and documents:
- **Theme changes**: Template files, `functions.php`
- **Gutenberg blocks**: `blocks/` directories
- **ACF fields**: `acf-json/` exports
- **Custom post types**: CPT registrations
- **Shortcodes**: New shortcode implementations
- **Must-use plugins**: `mu-plugins/` changes

## Related Commands

- **[`/pr-commit-msg`](pr-commit-msg.md)** - Generate commit message first
- **[`/pr-review self`](pr-review.md)** - Self-review before creating PR
- **[`/pr-release`](pr-release.md)** - Create release PR with changelog

Commit message:

docs(agents): add file creation requirements to audit and workflow agents
Standardize audit report persistence across all specialist agents and workflow commands:

- Add "File Creation" section to all specialist agents (accessibility, security, performance, code-quality, live-audit)
- Define file naming convention: audit-[type]-YYYY-MM-DD-HHMM.md
- Specify file location: current directory or reports/ subdirectory
- Document user presentation pattern: executive summary + file path
- Add Write/Edit tools to agent frontmatter (tools: Read, Glob, Grep, Bash, Write, Edit)
- Update command prompts to include file creation requirement
- Update pr-commit-msg and pr-create to clarify output format ("ONLY the complete message/description")
- Update pr-release to clarify artifact presentation format
- Modify quality-standards to include file creation in prompt

BREAKING CHANGE: All audit specialists now create report files as primary output instead of terminal-only display

commands/pr-create.md, after:

---
description: Generate PR description and create pull request using workflow specialist
argument-hint: "[ticket-number] [--concise]"
allowed-tools: Bash(git status:*), Bash(git diff:*), Bash(git log:*), Bash(git branch:*), Bash(gh pr view:*), Task
---

## How It Works

Spawn the **workflow-specialist** agent to handle the complete PR creation workflow:

```
Task(cms-cultivator:workflow-specialist:workflow-specialist,
     prompt="Create a pull request from the current branch. Arguments: [use ticket number and --concise flag if provided]. Follow the complete PR creation workflow: (1) Analyze git changes and detect CMS-specific modifications, (2) Run quality checks as needed (skip in --concise mode unless critical), (3) Generate comprehensive PR description following the project template, (4) Format your FINAL output with ONLY the PR title and full description using the '=== PULL REQUEST READY FOR APPROVAL ===' format - NO summaries, NO explanations, ONLY the title, complete description, and approval request, (5) Wait for user approval, then create the PR using gh CLI.")
```

### Workflow Steps (Automated)

The workflow specialist automatically executes these steps:

#### 1. Analysis
- Parse arguments (ticket number, `--concise` flag)
- Gather git context: current branch, main branch, commits since branching, files changed
- Detect CMS-specific changes:
  - **Drupal**: Config changes, module updates, update hooks, services, routes, permissions
  - **WordPress**: Theme changes, Gutenberg blocks, ACF fields, custom post types, shortcodes
- Determine which quality checks are needed

#### 2. Quality Checks (Parallel)
- **Standard mode**: Spawn specialists in parallel based on changes detected
  - Security-critical code → `cms-cultivator:security-specialist:security-specialist`
  - UI/frontend changes → `cms-cultivator:accessibility-specialist:accessibility-specialist`
  - New features/modified code → `cms-cultivator:testing-specialist:testing-specialist`
- **Concise mode** (`--concise`): Skip specialists unless critical issues detected

#### 3. PR Description Generation
- Generate description following project template:
  - User story and description (concise in `--concise` mode)
  - Acceptance criteria extracted from code changes
  - Deployment notes (essential only in `--concise` mode)
  - Steps to validate with specific admin paths
  - Compiled specialist findings (if any)

#### 4. User Approval (CRITICAL)
- **Present ONLY the PR title and full description** - NO summaries, NO context, NO explanations
- Format: `=== PULL REQUEST READY FOR APPROVAL ===` header, title, complete description, approval request
- Same presentation format whether `--concise` flag is used or not (flag only affects description verbosity)
- **Wait for explicit approval** before proceeding
- Allow user to approve or provide edits

#### 5. PR Creation
- Verify prerequisites (gh CLI auth, branch status, commits exist)
- Push branch to remote if needed (with user confirmation)
- Create pull request using `gh pr create`
- Return PR URL

### Tool Usage

The workflow-specialist orchestrates all operations:
- Analyze git history (commits, diffs, branch status)
- Detect CMS-specific changes (Drupal config, WordPress blocks)
- Spawn security-specialist, accessibility-specialist, testing-specialist in parallel for quality checks
- Generate PR description with acceptance criteria
- Present full description for user approval
- Push branch to remote (with user confirmation)
- Create pull request using gh CLI

**Prerequisites:**
- Changes must be committed before running this command
- Current branch cannot be main/master
- gh CLI must be installed and authenticated

---

## Quick Start

```bash
# 1. Commit and push your changes
git add .
git commit -m "Your commit message"
git push -u origin feature-branch

# 2. Run this command
/pr-create

# With ticket number:
/pr-create PROJ-123

# For smaller tasks/support tickets (concise mode):
/pr-create PROJ-123 --concise
/pr-create --concise
```

## Concise Mode

For smaller support tickets or simple bug fixes, use the `--concise` flag to generate:
- **Shorter descriptions** - 2-3 sentences instead of full paragraphs
- **Bullet point format** - Easier to scan and read
- **Fewer specialist checks** - Skips comprehensive analysis unless critical issues detected
- **Essential deployment notes only** - Focuses on what's necessary
- **All required template sections** - Still includes Description, Acceptance Criteria, Steps to Validate, etc.

**Use concise mode when:**
- ✅ Simple bug fixes
- ✅ Minor feature additions
- ✅ Small support tickets
- ✅ Quick UI tweaks
- ✅ Documentation updates

**Use standard mode when:**
- ✅ Major feature development
- ✅ Security-critical changes
- ✅ Complex refactoring
- ✅ Database schema changes
- ✅ Breaking changes

## PR Description Template

The workflow specialist generates descriptions following this structure:

```markdown
## Description
Teamwork Ticket(s): [PROJ-123](link)
- [ ] Was AI used in this pull request?

> As a developer, I need to...

[Comprehensive summary of changes and goals]

## Acceptance Criteria
* Extracted from code changes
* Specific, testable criteria
* Admin paths and validation steps

## Assumptions
* Known issues or limitations
* Environment-specific notes

## Steps to Validate
1. Direct links to test sites
2. Explicit testing instructions
3. Expected outcomes

## Affected URL
[link_to_multidev_or_test_site]

## Deploy Notes
[Dependencies, config imports, database updates, cache clearing]
```

## Ticket Number Handling

**Provide ticket number as argument:**
```bash
/pr-create PROJ-123
```

**Or let the workflow specialist extract it from:**
- Branch name: `feature/PROJ-123-description`
- Commit messages: Contains `PROJ-123`
- Manual prompt: Agent will ask if not found

## Optional PR Options

The workflow specialist can add:
- **Labels**: `--label bug,enhancement`
- **Reviewers**: `--reviewer username1,username2`
- **Assignees**: `--assignee username`
- **Draft mode**: `--draft`
- **Project**: `--project "Project Name"`

Just mention these in your request:
```bash
/pr-create PROJ-123 - mark as draft and assign to me
```

## CMS-Specific Detection

### Drupal Projects

The workflow specialist detects and documents:
- **Config changes**: `config/sync/*.yml` → Config import required
- **Update hooks**: `hook_update_N()` → Database updates needed
- **Module changes**: `modules/custom/` → Module dependencies
- **Services**: `*.services.yml` → Service definitions
- **Routes**: `*.routing.yml` → New endpoints
- **Permissions**: `*.permissions.yml` → Permission changes
- **Entities**: Field definitions, view modes, form displays

### WordPress Projects

The workflow specialist detects and documents:
- **Theme changes**: Template files, `functions.php`
- **Gutenberg blocks**: `blocks/` directories
- **ACF fields**: `acf-json/` exports
- **Custom post types**: CPT registrations
- **Shortcodes**: New shortcode implementations
- **Must-use plugins**: `mu-plugins/` changes

## Related Commands

- **[`/pr-commit-msg`](pr-commit-msg.md)** - Generate commit message first
- **[`/pr-review self`](pr-review.md)** - Self-review before creating PR
- **[`/pr-release`](pr-release.md)** - Create release PR with changelog
