commands/quality-standards.md, before:

---
description: Check code against coding standards (PHPCS, ESLint, WordPress/Drupal) using code-quality specialist
argument-hint: "[standard]"
allowed-tools: Task
---

Spawn the **code-quality-specialist** agent using:

```
Task(cms-cultivator:code-quality-specialist:code-quality-specialist,
     prompt="Check code against coding standards. Standard: [use argument if provided, otherwise 'auto-detect']. Run PHPCS, ESLint, and Prettier checks. Apply CMS-specific standards (Drupal Coding Standards or WordPress Coding Standards). Report violations with file/line locations.")
```

The code-quality specialist will:
1. **Run coding standards checks** - PHPCS, ESLint, Prettier
2. **Apply CMS standards**:
   - **Drupal**: Drupal Coding Standards via PHPCS
   - **WordPress**: WordPress Coding Standards via PHPCS
3. **Check JavaScript standards** - ESLint with appropriate configs
4. **Identify violations** - Errors and warnings with file/line locations
5. **Provide auto-fix recommendations** - Which issues can be auto-fixed

**Standards**: `drupal`, `wordpress`, `psr12`, `eslint`, `prettier`

---

## Tool Usage

**Allowed operations:**
- ✅ Spawn code-quality-specialist agent
- ✅ Run PHPCS with Drupal or WordPress coding standards
- ✅ Run ESLint with appropriate configurations
- ✅ Run Prettier for code formatting checks
- ✅ Identify violations with file/line locations
- ✅ Provide auto-fix recommendations

**Not allowed:**
- ❌ Do not automatically fix violations (provide --fix commands for user)
- ❌ Do not modify code files
- ❌ Do not commit changes

The code-quality-specialist agent performs all standards checking operations.

---

## Agent Used

**code-quality-specialist** - Coding standards specialist with CMS-specific configuration knowledge.

Commit message:

docs(agents): add file creation requirements to audit and workflow agents
Standardize audit report persistence across all specialist agents and workflow commands:

- Add "File Creation" section to all specialist agents (accessibility, security, performance, code-quality, live-audit)
- Define file naming convention: audit-[type]-YYYY-MM-DD-HHMM.md
- Specify file location: current directory or reports/ subdirectory
- Document user presentation pattern: executive summary + file path
- Add Write/Edit tools to agent frontmatter (tools: Read, Glob, Grep, Bash, Write, Edit)
- Update command prompts to include file creation requirement
- Update pr-commit-msg and pr-create to clarify output format ("ONLY the complete message/description")
- Update pr-release to clarify artifact presentation format
- Modify quality-standards to include file creation in prompt

BREAKING CHANGE: All audit specialists now create report files as primary output instead of terminal-only display

commands/quality-standards.md, after:

---
description: Check code against coding standards (PHPCS, ESLint, WordPress/Drupal) using code-quality specialist
argument-hint: "[standard]"
allowed-tools: Task
---

Spawn the **code-quality-specialist** agent using:

```
Task(cms-cultivator:code-quality-specialist:code-quality-specialist,
     prompt="Check code against coding standards. Standard: [use argument if provided, otherwise 'auto-detect']. Run PHPCS, ESLint, and Prettier checks. Apply CMS-specific standards (Drupal Coding Standards or WordPress Coding Standards). Report violations with file/line locations. Save the comprehensive audit report to a file (quality-analyze-YYYY-MM-DD-HHMM.md) and present the file path to the user.")
```

The code-quality specialist will:
1. **Run coding standards checks** - PHPCS, ESLint, Prettier
2. **Apply CMS standards**:
   - **Drupal**: Drupal Coding Standards via PHPCS
   - **WordPress**: WordPress Coding Standards via PHPCS
3. **Check JavaScript standards** - ESLint with appropriate configs
4. **Identify violations** - Errors and warnings with file/line locations
5. **Provide auto-fix recommendations** - Which issues can be auto-fixed

**Standards**: `drupal`, `wordpress`, `psr12`, `eslint`, `prettier`

---

## Tool Usage

**Allowed operations:**
- ✅ Spawn code-quality-specialist agent
- ✅ Run PHPCS with Drupal or WordPress coding standards
- ✅ Run ESLint with appropriate configurations
- ✅ Run Prettier for code formatting checks
- ✅ Identify violations with file/line locations
- ✅ Provide auto-fix recommendations

**Not allowed:**
- ❌ Do not automatically fix violations (provide --fix commands for user)
- ❌ Do not modify code files
- ❌ Do not commit changes

The code-quality-specialist agent performs all standards checking operations.

---

## Agent Used

**code-quality-specialist** - Coding standards specialist with CMS-specific configuration knowledge.
